>> Mike North: In this next section,
what we're going to take on is breaking,
like factoring another concern
out of the UI package.
We have a server.
We have that express server and
the data that it needs in order to produce
an API response when you ask for it.
And we're going to factor
that out of the UI project so
that we'll end up with three packages.
At the end of this,
we're going to have the models package and
both the server package and
the UI package will depend on models.
We will now have a nice setup
where we can examine how does
a shared dependency work and we can
start to poke at different tasks and
how they can operate while
being aware of that dependency.
Step one, let me give us a little
clean folder structure here.
So we're gonna make a server folder,
mkdir -p packages/server/src and tests.
There we go.
Step two, we're going to move the.
We're going to go into the UI project and
we're going to move the data
folder into Server.
We're going to grab all of
the TypeScript modules in Source Server.
We're going to grab all those and we're
going to bring those into Source up here.
And I'm not going to update imports.
We're going to like.
We'll figure that out.
And then finally, tests.
There is a server test and
I'm gonna move that into server/tests.
So we've moved over all the source
code and the tests and the data.
We can delete these two server folders
if you want, just to be nice and
clean, but
it won't matter if you leave them alone.
Cool, all right, we need a very basic
package.json for our new server project.
And I'm just going to borrow.
I'm going to grab actually all three
of these things, both TS configs and
the package JSON from our models project,
because a lot of it's
going to be the same.
These essentially are just,
they're both sort of Node libraries that
don't involve any fancy UI of some sort.
And we should be able to sort of make all
that work with some minor adjustments.
Oop, sorry, I'm gonna copy them and
we're gonna make some adjustments.
So here we'll say this is server.
We'll keep our convention here,
although bluntly it matters less because
the server kind of has
an NPM script to start.
If it exported a function
that started the server,
we would care about
downstream dependencies.
But this is a leaf level dependency.
Maybe we delete it just in case it
prevents someone from accidentally
importing stuff.
All right, looking at tests,
this all still applies.
Linting still applies,
build still applies.
This is all exactly what we want here.
It's still like,
we have excess dependencies here.
I'm leaving them because
we have a tool for that and
it'll help us clean all that up.
But I think this is a good
starting point here.
Now we depend on models.
So if we look in our code, it's not there,
it's in load-data for sure.
This is now broken.
We just had it working and
it's broken now.
And the reason is we haven't
described that inter-workspace
dependency where server
depends on the models package.
So just as before,
we have to go and take care of that.
It's not a dev dependency,
it is a dependency.
Again, the PNPM thing.
Workspace.
Great.
Let's see if this works.
So I'm going to go into packages server.
Wait, first we touched a package.json,
we've gotta run pnpmi.
Okay, if we look at our node_modules
folder, got some nice sym linking here.
Great.
Hey look, there's seeds.
So it's showing up.
It's actually interestingly,
it's going to be.
If we take a peek in our pnpm state here,
just going for seeds, wherever that is.
S.
It's not here.
There's probably some other
mechanism where that was happening.
I was curious, is it going to actually
symlink it in this node_modules folder?
But importantly here,
if we were to go into source and
do this, it's the same file, so
it's symlinking right into our workspace.
Same file but
different undo redo stack apparently.
Great.
So we did pnpmi PNPM build.
We have a build output in dist.
Let's try to start the server.
And taking a look at our NPM tasks,
we have a dev thing here,
but this is more about watch the build and
do a rebuild when files change.
Dev means something different
in the context of our server.
What we want is to use TSX
which if you use TS node and
haven't checked out TSX yet,
give it a look.
It does same thing better,
more support for modern module systems.
TS node.
You can use experimental loaders for
things, but TSX is pretty sweet.
There is a task that was defined in our
original project that takes care of
starting our server and
it's in our UiProjects package JSON.
Here it is.
So we're saying TSX watch
preserve watch output and
it's just running
the TypeScript file natively.
So we're not worried about
an incremental build happening.
All of that's taken care of for
us already.
So I'm going to grab this line here.
It doesn't really mean anything in
the context of the UI project anymore.
Granted, this task depends on it.
So we've broken our holistic
pnpm dev experience,
we're gonna get around to fixing that.
So what we are going to be able
to do is start this server up and
see that it listens on localhost 3000,
and we can hit it,
and we will work our way towards
actually being able to see data.
Okay, error file not found.
Well, what does that mean?
File server Source server index ts.
So that clearly means this, right?
It's just src/index ts now.
This was a server subfolder of src in
the UI project, now it's just index ts.
Try again, and
we're going to click on this link.
And we're gonna say /api seeds and
we get our seed data there.
Now, we benefited from
something nice here, and
that is we dragged our data
folder in from we have placed
our data folder in a spot where
the relative path to that
data folder is unaltered between
the load data file here.
So if you put that data folder in
a different place, this line of code here,
the data file path is what to troubleshoot
if you didn't see that seed data
coming through.
But now we have a working ui,
we have a working models package.
We can see the dependencies
between all of them.
If we back out,
we can see that we have a holistic
build process that first
starts in models and
then builds the UI and then builds server.
This is pnpm having an awareness
sort of of the DAG,
the directed graph of our dependencies.
And it knows to build the things
everything depends on first and
then works its way towards
the leaf level dependencies.
So we should be able
now to run pnpm build,
pnpm check, pnpm build, pnpm test.
It's a lot of dopamine right there.
Lots of green check marks.
Everything looks good.